# Information Studies: Internet and Society

# Blog Week 4
The readings assigned for this week reflected many different ideas of how influential and powerful the media can be. Bowker and Star present to us how the categorizing people into groups can be beneficial and detrimental at the same time. The reading mainly focused on the classification process. “The advantaged are those whose place in a set of classification systems is a powerful one and for whom powerful sets of classifications of knowledge appear natural. For these people the infrastructures that together support and construct their identities operate particularly smoothly (though never fully so). For others, the fitting process of being able to use the infrastructures takes a terrible toll. To "act naturally," they have to reclassify and be reclassified socially.” (Bowker, p. 225). The authors kept explaining that classifying people in groups were easier to control because it gave them a sense of belonging and identity. People actually want to associate with groups too because the psychological effect ends up turning the individual more confident. The more I think about it, although it creates division, it also forms a sort of unity.

The next reading introduced me to the idea of posthuman innovation and possibilities. Many arguments and problems come with this, but Hayles explains the solution to these problems in “How We Became Posthuman: Virtual Bodies in Cybernetic, Literature, and Informatics.” I like how Hayles explains the relationship between human interaction and environment in a psychological point of view. To tie in with Bowker’s article, the idea of identity is very emphasized again. “Such an argument assumes a vision of the human in which conscious agency is the essence of human identity. Sacrifice this, and we humans are hopelessly compromised, contaminated with mechanic alienness in the very heart of our humanity.” (Hayles. p. 288). Hayles not only explains the solution, but also offers the other side of the argument to make this topic very debatable.

Design X focuses on sociotechnical systems to help better our society and economy. This article gives us proposals of how to fix the problems Design X presents. Designers must understand the problem, develop proposals very delicately and carefully, share with other colleagues, and put together an organized and structured plan. The main step that is emphasized is implementation. “In order to make changes, designers cannot sit outside the sociotechnical system and throw solutions over the fence. Rather, they have to engage with the social dynamic of sensemaking within the organization; they have to negotiate with multiple stakeholders; and they have to be satisfied with the incremental changes that typically result from such processes. Thus, it is not sufficient for designers to be skilled with respect to the classical design arts. Designers who expect to make an impact at the level of socio- technical systems will also have to be skilled in the politics of muddling through.” (Norman and Stappers, p. 98). This complicated process is years of research and development that can better our future.

Finally, to me, the most compelling and scariest part of the media is surveillance capitalism, and this is perfectly explained to us in the video Forum Privatheit 2018: Shoshana Zuboff Keynote Speech on Surveillance Capitalism. This speech gives us an idea of the essential meaning of this form of capitalism. Corporate America is starving for any type or form of data they can get their hands on. This made me realize how important of an issue this is because most people have a clue of what this is. “You are not the product, you are the abandoned carcass. The product derives from the surplus that is ripped from your life.” (Privatheit, 9:40). This quote excellently represents an average human being getting ripped from his or her personal information. We are a society that relies heavily on technology, but with this advancement comes many problems. We must be more aware of what this brings to the table. Every word, text, or action done can be tracked easily, and we must be aware of this to protect our own privacy. This corporate takeover of the media can essentially control the way we think and act.

Bowker, G. C., & Star, S. L. (1999). The case of race classification and reclassification under apartheid. Sorting things out: Classification and its consequences, 195-225.

Hayles, K. (1999). “How We Became Posthuman: Virtual Bodies in Cybernetic, Literature, and Informatics” The University of Chicago Press. Read: prologue and chapter 1.

Norman, Donald A., and Pieter Jan Stappers. (2015) "DesignX: complex sociotechnical systems." She Ji: The Journal of Design, Economics, and Innovation 1.2 83-106.

Privatheit, Forum, director. Forum Privatheit 2018: Shoshana Zuboff Keynote Speech on Surveillance Capitalism. YouTube, YouTube, 26 Nov. 2018, www.youtube.com/watch?v=DeaSxCN2uw8.

# Blog Week 3

When you hear the words “self-portrait,” what comes to mind? For me, I thought I drawing a picture of my face would expose my unartistic abilities. Although that is the literal meaning of a self-portrait, with the use of html, I was able to interpret the concept of a self-portrait in any way I wanted to. At first, the thought of my background and ethnicities came to mind, but that was too basic. I then realized that I wanted to create a self-portrait of the aspects of my life that got me here today. That was living the life as a student and an athlete. Without them, I wouldn’t be going to the prestigious UCLA. Being a student and an athlete are on opposite sides of the spectrum. You were either a nerd or a jock, but I was both. This explains the layout of my webpage. I split the page into halves to emphasize the contrast of the two, but I still included them both on the same page because they define who I am. The title text box and the “Next Chapter” text box are meant to seal the two aspects together, signifying the meaning of who I am, and how I will continue to live this life going into college. The color background of course symbolizes UCLA and shows how much effort it took to get into the university for both the “student” and “athlete” parts of my life. All the pictures in the self-portrait give you a taste of who I am. They are fairly recent photos but it helps reflect the maturity of the topic as well. Overall, I had a great time completing the html self-portrait of myself because it made realize who I really am, and it gives me peace of mind that someone can be inspired by experiences.  

The most difficult part of creating my self-portrait was definitely understanding how html works. It took many hours of learning, but I eventually got the gist of it. Adding the interactive features such as the hover effect, tab bar, and links were especially the most difficult. I never knew anything about coding, which made it more frustrating with the problems that occurred. I have to say that finishing the portrait was probably one of the most satisfying experiences. My ability to learn something I had no clue of before put a smile on my face. Many of us are learning and excelling in the technology field. This project gave me more insight to what the Internet is really capable of. In “Alternate and Activist New Media” by Leah A. Lievrouw, it says, “In the field of communication, scholars have taken several approaches to defining media and communication technologies over time.” It’s so ironic to notice that I’m one of those students pursuing knowledge to define media technologies. The readings definitely connected to the portrait in a surprisingly way. The ideas reflected in the project and readings spiked my interest in the technology world, and I can’t wait to learn and understand more of it.

Lievrouw, L.A. (2011). Challenging the experts: Commons knowledge. In Alternative and Activist New Media, pp. 177‐213. Cambridge: Polity.

# Blog Week 1

The Internet is such a complex networking system that has changed the way we think, act, communicate, and live. From the readings, it emphasizes on how the Internet is a revolutionary gateway in the technology industry. It is forever impacting our social, economic, and political societies. Before the Internet, there was the telegraph. The telegraph was very much neglected in a way because it actually produced industries and varieties of communication. There is little credit given to the way the telegraph began the electronic revolution, changed how we communicate and obtain knowledge, created the relationship between innovation and monopoly. (Carey, 2009). From that point on, the world was changed. Humans were now given the ability to interpret time, journalize our thoughts, and organize our government from one little invention. For example, like I already said, The Internet has essentially changed the way we communicate drastically. “This points, first, to the need to consider more carefully the relationship between language and technology.” (Gillespie, 2006, p. 450). Language conveys meaning and the way we communicate, whether in technology or not, is always adapted.

In The Master Switch, the author says, “The oscillation of information industries between open and closed is so typical a phenomenon that I have given it a name: ‘the Cycle.’” (Wu, 2010, p. 6). Wu excellently provides us with the explanation of “the Cycle.” This is a cycle of breakthroughs in the corporate world that often starts with the exposure of failures. When an innovation is developed, it is popularized. The more it is mass consumed, the more exposure of failures is shown. To fix this, companies pursue to continuously fix the problem, and the cycle starts all over again. The openness and closedness of this can be seen, but raises the question about the Internet. The Internet remains diffused but if consolidated, then the Cycle will appear.

Another example of our innovative minds is through the creation of Low-tech Internet. Low-tech networks are usually connected with WIFI links, the same type of network for our mobile devices. (Low-Tech Magazine). The advantages come in many shapes and forms. The cheap capital costs and availability of a good amount of bandwidth allow long range WIFI to be in less developed countries as well. It is somewhat a metaphor with connecting these excluded countries with the rest of the world. In the end, WIFI has benefited our daily lives on social media, and the intuitive minds of people in poorer countries. The author Gillespie introduces us to the end-to-end principle. “The end-to-end principle essentially states that all knowledge about the specific needs of particular applications should be concentrated at the “end-points” of a network connection, that is, at the hosts that are communicating with each other; no other network components, such as routers, should need to know any of the details of application function or data structure in order to operate effectively.” (Dourish, 2015, p. 8). This shows how developed and innovative humans have gotten. The Internet has helped us grow in so many ways. Now, the Cycle will continue from to go on from there, or will the Internet defy the odds? What’s the next breakthrough?

Carey, J. (2009). Technology and Ideology: The Case of the Telegraph

Wu, T. (2010) The Master Switch: The Rise and Fall of Information Empires. Chapters 1 and 15, pages 3 -14, and 196-203

Gillespie, T. (2006) Engineering a Principle: 'End-to-End' in the Design of the Internet. Social Studies of Science, Vol. 36, No. 3. Sage Publications

Dourish, P. (2015) Not The Internet, but This Internet: How Othernets Illuminate Our Feudal Internet. 5th Decennial Aarhus Conference on Critical Alternatives

How to Build a Low-tech Internet, Low-Tech Magazine



